ReadMe.md, before:

Nu Game Engine [![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](https://github.com/bryanedds/Nu/blob/master/License.md)
=

**New Discord channel here -**
https://discord.gg/3RgQvc

What is the **Nu Game Engine**?

*"The Nu Game Engine is a game development platform that aims to drastically reduce the cost of game development by providing a superior programming model for games via Iterative Functional Reactive Programming (IFRP). After finally reaching v1.3.0.4, the implementation has matured enough to prove both the efficacy and viability of functional programming in games in terms of performance, programmability, and reliability."*

![Screenshot](Projects/InfinityRpg/Promotional/InfinityRpg.png?raw=true)

This repository hosts several projects, including -

- the **Nu Game Engine**, a cross-platform F# 2D game engine built in the functional style. Uses SDL2 and Farseer Physics.
- the sample game **BlazeVector**.
- the work-in-progress game **InfinityRpg**.

Here is some media on the Nu Game Engine -

![Screenshot](Projects/BlazeVector/Promotional/BlastingAwayInBlazeVector.png?raw=true)
Nu's tutorial game, BlazeVector!

![Screenshot](Projects/BlazeVector/Promotional/EditingASectionOfABlazeVectorStage.png?raw=true)
Editing a section of a BlazeVector stage.

![Screenshot](Nu/Nu.Promotional/SpecialEffect.png?raw=true)
Editing a special effect in Nu.

Getting Started
===============

The best way to get started is to pull down the repository with a git client, and to take a look at the following documents -

The current documentation for the **Nu Game Engine** is found here - https://github.com/bryanedds/Nu/blob/master/Nu/Nu.Documentation/Nu%20Game%20Engine.pdf

There is additional documentation on **advanced Nu game programming techniques** in an 'experience report' found here -
https://github.com/bryanedds/Nu/blob/master/Nu/Nu.Documentation/Iterative%20Functional%20Reactive%20Programming%20with%20the%20Nu%20Game%20Engine.pdf

Finally, please check out the license for this repository below!

Thanks all for checking out my work so far!

Sponsors
========

The **Nu Game Engine** is looking for sponsors! If you're interested in sponsoring development for what I hope will become **the world's first mainstream functional game engine**, please contact me at bryanedds@gmail.com . Otherwise, I'll just have to work on it in my spare time, which can be erratic :S

No Code of Conduct
===============

This project adheres to No Code of Conduct.  We are all adults.  We accept anyone's contributions.  Nothing else matters.

For more information please visit the [No Code of Conduct](https://github.com/domgetter/NCoC) homepage.

Commit message:

Removed InfinityRPG - it needs to be rewritten in the Elm style and I will almost certainly never find time for that.

ReadMe.md, after:

Nu Game Engine [![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](https://github.com/bryanedds/Nu/blob/master/License.md)
=

**New Discord channel here -**
https://discord.gg/3RgQvc

What is the **Nu Game Engine**?

*"The Nu Game Engine is a game development platform that aims to drastically reduce the cost of game development by providing a superior programming model for games via Iterative Functional Reactive Programming (IFRP). After finally reaching v1.3.0.4, the implementation has matured enough to prove both the efficacy and viability of functional programming in games in terms of performance, programmability, and reliability."*

This repository hosts several projects, including -

- the **Nu Game Engine**, a cross-platform F# 2D game engine built in the functional style. Uses SDL2 and Farseer Physics.
- the sample game **BlazeVector**.
- the Chrono Trigger-like game being developed in my spare time.

Here is some media on the Nu Game Engine -

![Screenshot](Projects/BlazeVector/Promotional/BlastingAwayInBlazeVector.png?raw=true)
Nu's tutorial game, BlazeVector!

![Screenshot](Projects/BlazeVector/Promotional/EditingASectionOfABlazeVectorStage.png?raw=true)
Editing a section of a BlazeVector stage.

![Screenshot](Nu/Nu.Promotional/SpecialEffect.png?raw=true)
Editing a special effect in Nu.

Getting Started
===============

The best way to get started is to pull down the repository with a git client, and to take a look at the following documents -

The current documentation for the **Nu Game Engine** is found here - https://github.com/bryanedds/Nu/blob/master/Nu/Nu.Documentation/Nu%20Game%20Engine.pdf

There is additional documentation on **advanced Nu game programming techniques** in an 'experience report' found here -
https://github.com/bryanedds/Nu/blob/master/Nu/Nu.Documentation/Iterative%20Functional%20Reactive%20Programming%20with%20the%20Nu%20Game%20Engine.pdf

Finally, please check out the license for this repository below!

Thanks all for checking out my work so far!

Sponsors
========

The **Nu Game Engine** is looking for sponsors! If you're interested in sponsoring development for what I hope will become **the world's first mainstream functional game engine**, please contact me at bryanedds@gmail.com . Otherwise, I'll just have to work on it in my spare time, which can be erratic :S

No Code of Conduct
===============

This project adheres to No Code of Conduct.  We are all adults.  We accept anyone's contributions.  Nothing else matters.

For more information please visit the [No Code of Conduct](https://github.com/domgetter/NCoC) homepage.
